So I was like, "You can't
"Gone Girl" someone if you say
you're "Gone Girl"-ing him."
Yeah, that is too true.
Okay, wait, wait, wait.
To girls night.
Girls night.
No rush, ladies.
Just whenever you get a chance.
Thanks.
Here, let me get it, because
I did just get a raise.
Thanks, Emily.
How much should I tip?
In a perfect world, nothing.
(dishes shatter)
Oh, sorry.
Why are you here?
I eat here all the time.
Were you eating dinner
with a plant?
Of course not.
Happy to join you.
Hi, I'm Adam.
Adam, these are my friends,
"Go Away" and "You Don't Need To
Know." Now scram.
It's okay.
Hi, I'm Veronica and this is
Haylie.
No. No, no, no.
Don't be nice to him.
He's just going to destroy
something we love.
Oh, God.
It's restaurants, isn't it?
No, I love restaurants.
Oh, God, phew.
But you must admit that some
restaurant customs are pretty
weird.
No.
♪♪
Ugh, why would anyone give
you a TV show?
Because I'm so handsome?
Oh, honey.
That can't be why.
Okay, so you don't like
tipping.
Oh, no, not at all.
And I understand that right now,
you probably hate me for even
daring to question the custom.
Yeah, what the fudge?
Oh, sorry.
But hear me out.
By the time I'm done, I think
you'll agree that tipping is a
custom we'd be better off
without.
Sorry.
I don't tip.
I'm not gonna tip just 'cause
society says I got to.
Let's get one thing straight,
if you live in America, you have
to tip.
Restaurants here can legally pay
their servers less than minimum
wage.
As little as three bucks an
hour.
As long as that's true, if you
don't tip, you're a bad person.
I'm getting out of here.
Jerk.
But just because that's the
system we have, doesn't mean
it's a good system, and
restaurant tipping is a custom
that shortchanges servers,
inconveniences customers, and
makes the dining experience
worse for everyone.
Oh, sorry.
First, ask yourself this--
why is it our responsibility to
pay the restaurant's employees
fairly?
Like, why don't they just pay
you a normal amount of money and
make the food more expensive?
That's what every business has
done since the dawn of time.
When you buy a shirt, it's just
50 bucks.
They're not like, okay, that'll
be $40, and you decide the stock
boy eats tonight.
Oh, wow.
Guess you're going hungry.
No, it's his fault, not mine.
Bogus.
In most countries, restaurant
tipping isn't mandatory and even
in America, it's a relatively
new custom.
For most of our history, tipping
was considered an undemocratic
form of bribery.
Serve me before this rabble,
won't you?
I'm a very wealthy man.
I shan't, sir.
This is America, where every man
has the right to decent service.
But after prohibition banned
the sale of alcohol, restaurant
profits cratered,
and restaurant owners started
encouraging servers to accept
tips because it meant they could
pay them less.
Sorry, Ollie.
I can't afford to pay you this
month.
You better go take that fat
cat's cash.
A century later, we're still
stuck with the same system,
turning what used to be a bribe
into an obligation that makes
the end of every meal suck,
unless your idea of a good time
is bickering with your friends
about math.
Just tip 15%.
15?
Clearly, you've never worked in
the service industry.
I always tip at least 60.
Guys, everyone knows the rule
is 20%, so I'm just gonna tip
that, problem solved.
Okay.
If you think the rule is so
clear, let me ask you this.
20% before or after tax?
Before.
After.
Ugh...
I like it.
If I give better service, I earn
better tips.
Actually, you don't.
Research shows that only 2% of
the difference in tips left by
different parties is explainable
by the quality and service.
In other words, no matter how
good of a job you do, you'll be
tipped about the same.
Seriously?
Well, then screw this.
Yep.
Should we not tip him?
No, I don't want to get
yelled at.
Just give him... 18%.
And the worst part is,
tipping results in wage
discrimination.
The research also shows that
black servers are tipped less
than white servers across the
board.
Um, I think I forgot
something.
Uh, just...
I'll get that.
Oh.
I feel bad.
And considering that racially
discriminatory pay is against
the law, it's kind of surprising
that this entire system isn't
straight up illegal.
Oh, my God.
Okay, that's terrible, but
what can we do about it?
I mean, we can't change the
restaurant industry.
No, but restaurants can and
some already are.
Meet Gabriel Frem and Christy
Kuriakose from Brand 158 in
Glendale, California.
Gabriel, would you tell these
guys a little bit about your
restaurant?
Sure.
At Brand 158, we instituted a
no-tipping policy, and that's
been a great success.
For our guests, they feel like
they're in a nurturing
environment where they can
relax, enjoy their meal, and not
have to worry about doing math
at the end of the meal to figure
out what to tip.
And for our servers, it creates
stable income so that they can
focus on our guests.
We don't do it because we feel
charitable, we do it because
it's good business to take care
of your people so that they can
take care of your customers like
any other business.
But what does the staff
think?
Oh, the employees love it,
let me tell you.
As a server, the fact that I
have a stable income is
absolutely fantastic.
I even have benefits.
Are you hiring?
We're always looking for good
people.
That does sound like a better
system.
It is, but until the rest of
the restaurants catch up,
you still have to tip.
So, uh, pay up.
Your friend is super fun,
Emily.
Yeah, I know what I'm doing.
I need a drink.
♪ Show me your moonlight
Yay! Taking a shot!
Oh, Jagermeister.
Named after Hermann Goring's
huntmasters, or "Jagermeisters"
of the Nazi era.
What the hell?
You're going to ruin our
drinks for us?
You know, my ride share is
almost here, but what the heck,
I'll cancel it.
♪♪
What can I get you ladies?
Well, I really like
craft beer.
Something super artisanal.
Maybe like a Goose Stop.
You mean a Miller Bud?
No, Goose Stop.
Miller Bud.
Goose Stop!
Miller Bud!
Look, I don't know what you
think "craft beer" means.
It means it comes with an
orange slice.
But many of the most popular
craft beers are actually brewed
by giant corporations.
The term is totally unregulated
and can be used by anyone.
Whatever.
I want a real drink.
A whiskey.
How about that one?
The bottle is way old, there's a
cabin on the label, and it's $15
a glass, so you know it's good.
You got it.
Oh, excuse me.
Excuse me, excuse me.
Here we go.
No, the fancy one!
But what's the difference?
It's the same whiskey.
Many supposedly "small batch"
bourbons and ryes are just the
same liquor slightly changed
with a cooler label.
Time for a refill.
(cackling)
All right, ladies, would you
like to see our wine list?
That sounds perfect.
Yes, let's talk about wine.
There are so many.
How am I supposed to choose?
Have you ever noticed that
when it's time to choose a wine,
none of us feel like we know
what we're doing?
This one's fancy, I think.
Since we can't taste the
wines before we buy them, we're
forced to pick just based on the
label.
This one has a frog wearing a
hat, so I bet that tastes
like... mossy?
This one's by Francis Ford
Coppola.
I like his movies, so I bet it
tastes like, um, "The
Godfather"?
This one says ketchup.
Am I holding a bottle of
ketchup?
And even when we do taste
them, we doubt our own opinions.
Mmm, this is dry.
This one's full... bodied?
Are you sure?
No, what is a wine body?
Yeah, this is clearly wet.
So we defer to the opinions
of so-called "wine experts."
Perhaps I can be of some
assistance, ladies.
Oh, thank God.
Tell us what tastes good.
I've been pretending this
whole time.
But the truth is, everyone is
pretending because even though
wine connoisseurs want us to
believe that their ratings are
objective...
That one's fit to drink,
that is cheap swill, and that is
a bottle of ketchup.
...and they have supernatural
powers of wine discernment.
Hmm, a 1934.
Tastes like it was a very cold
summer that year.
And, uh...
the vendor's wife was pregnant.
Hold on.
With a girl.
Here's the big secret--
wine experts can't tell the
difference either.
I beg to differ, sir.
My palate is incredibly refined.
Well, Frederic Brochet of the
University of Bordeaux would say
otherwise.
He conducted a series of tests
on unsuspecting wine experts,
but for the sake of TV, let's
call them wine pranks.
Wine pranks!
In the first test, 54 wine
connoisseurs were asked to
compare a red and a white wine.
Should be pretty easy.
The red is juicy and robust.
The white...
It's bright, with notes of
vanilla and oak.
Wrong!
They're actually the same wine.
(buzzer)
Half of the bottles were just
white wine dyed red and none of
the participants could tell.
I never!
Wine pranks!
In another test, experts were
asked to compare two different
bottles.
One, an expensive Grand Cru,
and the other, a cheap table
wine.
The Grand Cru.
Complex.
Very, very interesting.
I shall be returning to the
Grand Cru.
(farts)
"Fan-du-tab."
It's light.
It's flat.
It's pretty much what you'd
expect.
Oh, that's interesting,
because once again, they're the
same wine.
Brochet just put the same wine
in two different bottles and
none of the so-called "wine
experts" even noticed.
Wine pranks, wine pranks!
Oh, you got wine pranked!
All right.
You've convinced me.
All wine is terrible and it
tastes the same.
No, wine is wonderful and of
course, wines taste different.
It's just totally subjective,
like all foods.
We don't need sandwich experts
because we know what we like.
Peanut butter and sardines.
What, they're both healthy fats.
And it's what I like.
If you don't like it, it doesn't
matter because there's no
objective truth to what tastes
best.
We think of wine as a high-class
item only accessible by
high-class people,
but it's just tasty fermented
grapes.
So you know what?
Forget the snobs,
take risks and drink what tastes
good to you.
Wait. Really?
You mean I can drink whatever I
want?
Yeah.
Freedom!
Who wants to split a box of
white zin?
Yeah!
I've missed this so much!
I love it!
Great. So...
Thank you for an enlightening
time.
I think we've all learned a lot.
Yeah.
Sorry you missed dinner.
You know, it's time to split, so
enjoy your sandwich that you
brought to a restaurant.
Oh, what'd you guys have, by
the way?
We all had the fish.
I had the orange roughy,
Emily had the salmon, and
Veronica had the white tuna,
okay?
Oh.
What?
You don't really want to
know.
At this point, just lay it on
me.
Okay, first, I want to finish
my sandwich.
Oh, my God.
♪♪
Did you know that lobster was
originally considered food for
the poor?
It didn't become associated with
wealth and luxury until World
War II, when food rationing
cased shortages--
Ahem. You were supposed to
tell us what's wrong with what
we ordered.
Of course, happy to.
I think it's time we visit the
ghost of dinner past.
Are you talking about farts?
No, time travel.
Everybody hold hands.
And you think, you wink, you do
a double blink...
Just do it.
Is that us?
Yep.
I am so cute.
Hi, I don't have a
reservation.
Table for two, please.
That's not what it looks
like.
No, come on.
Do you have water?
Just a joke.
Excuse me.
You are very pretty.
Uh, they can't see or hear
us.
Aww.
Anyway, the awful truth about
restaurants is that often the
food you order isn't the food
you get, especially when it
comes to seafood.
Yes, I will have the salmon.
Yeah, I love salmon.
Oh, what color do you like
it?
The color that it naturally
is?
In that case, here it is.
Oh, my God, that is so gross.
Nearly all farmed salmon
actually starts out a sickly
gray color.
I just need a change!
In the ocean, wild salmon
turn pink because they eat
krill, but farmed salmon are fed
kibble, made of chicken fat,
soybeans and ground-up feathers.
My diet is ruining my
complexion, but I just can't
stop!
Manufacturers then dye the
fish pink to make it more
appetizing to unwitting
consumers.
I love it!
The funny thing is, salmon
would actually be a lot cheaper
if it weren't dyed, but we just
gotta have pink fish.
No!
I was gonna go to school!
Yuck.
Well, I'll order wild salmon
from now on.
Actually, even when the menu
says wild salmon, a lot of the
time, you're getting farmed
salmon and you just don't know
it.
Fine.
Tuna.
Oh, don't even get me started
on tuna.
No.
I said, don't even get me
started on tuna!
What's wrong with tuna?
It's what I ordered.
I have to know.
Chances are it wasn't tuna.
The mislabeling of fish is
rampant in the restaurant
industry.
A study by Oceana found that 59%
of the tuna they genetically
tested from grocery stores and
restaurants wasn't tuna at all.
In sushi restaurants, the number
was 74%.
Oh, God.
What is it?
Is it little bugs?
No, it's just other kinds of
fish.
Usually, a snake mackerel called
"escolar."
Well, whatever, so long as it
tastes good.
Oh, yeah, escolar tastes
great.
And you'll be fine, for a few
hours.
But the flesh of escolar
contains waxy deposits that are
not easy to digest.
This is so good.
(stomach gurgling)
I feel so not good.
Ugh.
You'll probably need this.
It makes you poop.
Yeah, we got it.
Okay, how does this happen?
Is it legal?
No, it isn't, but it's pretty
hard to catch the perps when we
keep eating the evidence.
But you know what is legal,
the renaming of "trash fish" to
make them sound more appetizing.
What?
And your orange roughy.
Mmm, sounds tasty.
Oh, yeah, it does.
But it didn't back when the
same fish was called the
"slimehead."
Ugh.
Popular species have been so
depleted that fisherman have
resorted to giving more
appetizing names to weird-ass
fish that used to be considered
too gross to eat.
No tuna today, Chef.
Slimehead is all we got.
I can't serve these
disgusting things!
Even the name makes me want to
hurl.
Well, maybe we can come up
with a new one, then.
Well, they're orange and kind of
rough.
What about orange roughy?
Hmm.
Yes, those dummies should buy
that! Ha!
Kill... me...
(women giggling)
It's true.
Overfishing is a really serious
problem.
Oh, that is so interesting.
Dad?
Wait, this is your dad?
He's so charming.
Yep, this is my actual
father, David Conover, a marine
biologist at Stony Brook
University.
Uh, Dad, these are my best
friends, Emily and the other
ones.
Sorry, we're your best
friends?
You know, we hang out.
That is so sad.
I'm sorry, tell me more.
Let me tell you how bad
overfishing is.
A recent study showed that 58%
of the world's fish docks are
either overfished or collapsed.
Oh, my God.
Okay, Dad.
Can anything be done about this
problem?
Yeah, with respect to
overfishing, we need to reduce
the amount of fish we're
harvesting.
We need to make sure that the
fish species that are being
overharvested are exempt from
harvesting until they recover.
It's all part of what we call
ecosystem-based management.
Wait.
How does that lead to fish
mislabeling, though?
When the most popular fish
are depleted, the fishing
industry has to find new species
to harvest.
There's thousands of fish in the
sea that we serve for food,
but the public knows the names
of only a few of those fish, so
mislabeling is the obvious
result.
Yeah, like anyone could learn
all the names of all those fish.
Well, some of us do know the
names of those fish.
(laughing)
Dad, not everyone loves fish
and wants to marry a fish or
whatever.
Stop embarrassing me!
Sorry, Adam.
See you at Sunday dinner.
Bye, Dad.
Wow, I really liked him.
Like, you could learn
something from him.
Yes.
And he's, like, nice.
Yeah, your dad is super
handsome.
I wouldn't even have known he
was your dad.
It's like, you sound smart,
but he is smart.
You know what?
Let's get dessert.
Yeah!
Oh, you definitely don't want
dessert.
Give me a break, Adam.
What, you don't like drinks, you
don't like dinner, you don't
like dessert, you don't like
restaurants at all, I mean, what
is your glitch?
Look, I know these facts
sound like bummers, but I was
just about to explain how
learning them can actually make
the restaurant experience so
much more--
You truly are a demon.
(whistling)
Okay, so why do you have such
a problem with restaurants?
What, do you hate going to a
nice place, having a nice time?
Oh, no, I love it, and
restaurants can be wonderful.
We just need to remember that
all of this is an illusion.
Haven't you ever wondered where
restaurants come from?
Hmm, nope.
I know cavemen had
drive-thrus.
You're thinking about the
Flintstones, honey.
In France, after the
revolution toppled the
aristocracy,
rich people's personal chefs had
nowhere to work, so they opened
fine dining restaurants so that
even the common man could eat
like a king for a day.
Now, you're not a king.
It's an illusion.
But as long as you don't take
the illusion too seriously
or exploit the people who are
serving you, it's fine.
We just need to all remember
that we created this miniature
world, so we can change it
however we want.
If we leave the bad parts and
keep the good parts, we'll all
have a better time.
So what's your problem
with dessert?
Oh, I love dessert.
I just don't like dessert in
restaurants.
Come on, it's always the same,
like crème brûlée and molten
lava cake.
Let's get ice cream.
This man know stuff.
Yeah, I--
Yeah.
Fun fact about ice cream.
Hey, come on, man.
Give it a rest, you jerk.
Hey, lay off!
How about you give it a rest?
Tuna isn't real.
Okay, hey, calm down.
Hey.
Hey, lay off.
Come on.
What, are we on a playground
here?
Did you know the ice cream
cone was invented in 1904 at the
World's Fair in--
Adam, don't you ever just
stop and enjoy things?
Oh, no, that's how I enjoy
things.
Oh, wow.
A shooting star.
Oh, yeah, that's not a
shooting star.
It's a satellite.
Hey, Emily.
Is Haylie single?
No.
I mean, like, yes, but...
Oh, hey, did you guys valet?
I would love a ride.
Next time on "Adam Ruins
Everything"...
Did you know you just washed
your mouth with floor cleaner?
We'll tell Americans they're
dirty, filthy garbage people.
The massive flimflam that is
the flushable wipe.
And I ate all your old
antidepressants!
(screaming)